Y05H1's comments

If required, leave out my notes for 8-1, 8-Castle 1, and 8-6.





Opening comments:
If it wasn't for my friend mindnomad, this TAS never would've actually started! He's a fanatic of New Super Mario Bros., and it was his encouraging that got me to try again at this game (I made an attempt to run this game a while ago, but it didn't turn out very well). After making some progress, we posted a WIP on TASVideos, and soon enough, we were all working to create this TAS.


1-1

An interesting level to start the TAS. This level has a 2-year history for mindnomad and I. Both before we even met and when we planned to make a TAS of this game together, this level was redone about 10 times (done throughout the period from repeated loss of motivation) due to our lack of knowledge on luck.


1-2

This was a fairly fun level to rush through. Learning about the super corner boost with the Blue Shell here made this level (and all the others in general) harder to optimize in terms of trying to manage speed. It's still pretty simple, though.
The pipe at the end gave us a bit of "delay" trouble, but luckily, terrotim was able to completely get rid of it.


1-T

It was disappointing to know we couldn't get the Blue Shell here instead - we were unable to make it through the moving blocks when we tried. It would've been a nice timesaver. I was happy, though, that we were able to save enough time to reach 465 as soon as possible. Unless another timesaver is found to reach 467, this level should be perfect. (This is the first of a few levels that have seemed to reach the time limit.)


5-1

I had fun with this one! terrotim had the idea of messing around as much as possible. So, we did so by repeating double and triple jumps (and cancelling them) while occasionally facing backward. Admittedly, maybe more could've been done with entertainment, but as it is, it seems okay. (I did want to face backward coolly without doing anything for the exact amount of frames we had to wait at the end, but I couldn't do so without messing up the beginning we have...)
Even with super corner boosting and the above-speed-shell trick, we couldn't pass 366 - we were off by 10 frames.


5-2

Shown here are the first few uses of the full-speed-off-ledge trick with the shell. The part with the many pipes required quite a bit of testing, since there are a lot of ways to go about it. Near the pipe at the end, I had an idea to break through the mass of bricks, but that was slower. (Ohhh, it looked much cooler, though!)


5-3

This level and its RNG... I had to edit this level so much to get the manipulation right. (No idea why this level was so difficult...)
The other half of the level with the Snailicorns was more complex than 5-2's pipe part. A random midair jump is thrown toward the end. Oh, and yay, just one frame off from missing 268.
(Then, to find out that this level had to be redone because it had a timesaver... Attempting for remanipulation stopped me early at 5-1.)


5-Ghost House

How absolutely confusing the intro is. You hold B/A for just two more frames, and the Broozer above the beginning changes its path - slightly. That slight change leaves you with a loss of 2 frames from being unable to get enough height after ground pounding off of it. The part right after wasn't much better, either!
Well, anyway, the second room of the level had much time spent on it. I tried many tests with Y speed - whether a certain amount of frames holding B/A would be optimal, and if not, trying with a different amount of frames. Bouncing off of the Splunkin in midair near the end of the room through looks cool.


8-1

A rather straightforward level. Corner boosts seem difficult to do as mini Mario. (Well, at least to me.)


8-2

Finding the water surface boosting glitch surprised me. It just sort of... happened. I like the bonus room - lasting 2 seconds of game time! The wall jump to the pipe gave us delay, but I was surprised to have been able to completely get rid of it by holding forward against the wall. Pipe entry delay is such an odd thing...
With all the improvements throughout, we were able to finish the level with 2 frames to spare (to avoid 255).


8-Tower 1

At first I was overwhelmed by the thought of trying to manipulate timing of all the blocks ahead, but it turned out that the two big blocks near the end couldn't be manipulated, which made it so that I actually didn't even have to manipulate that much. That is, only in terms of the blocks themselves - yay, wall jump spam! terrotim mentioned that we needed a ton of RNG advancing to manipulate a Blue Shell in 8-3, so I had to perform as many wall jumps and double jumps as I could to make it... and I did, with 2 chances of advancing to spare.


8-3

This level was a bit of trouble because of trying to find out the fastest speed cycles for every water current, and because of trying to optimize the corners at the beginning. We made multiple attempts to pass corners by pressing and letting go of forward at random times. (We don't have any real way of calculating an optimal way to pass them, sadly.)
The pipe at the end was difficult, too - not only did we have entry delay, but X positioning had to be perfect to reach the point to start the fadeout transition as early as possible.


8-4

Taking a hit here looked "unclean" (I personally wanted it to look more obvious that we wanted to take damage). So does the Koopa shell grabbing, but there's nothing that can be done. It was surprising to find that using the shell to get the Starman was faster (without, we were about 10 frames slower).
Lots of screen scrolling toward the end to manipulate platform movement.


8-Castle 1

When I attempted this level, I was unable to do the big jump past the overhanging wall to the platform. (Hmm, not much to say...)


8-5

The way this level turned out makes me very pleased. terrotim found out that we coincidentally end up jumping in tune to the first part of the beginning loop of the song. I added in some screen scrolls to make it even more "musical." (I do wonder if these will even be noticed...)
Aside from that, it, in general, looks polished as a run.


8-6

Vertical levels always seem to be the hardest to speedrun...
terrotim came up with the route for this difficult level. The boosting glitch with the spring pad and the wall has interesting properties and is confusing to pull off.


8-7

mindnomad and terrotim found out about keeping speed on the cliffs, as well as staying face-forward. It looks a lot different seeing Mario triple jump "at the screen" while moving forward. Mario coolly gets past the Fire Bro here with a little screen scrolling, although it was actually unnecessary.


8-8

This level surprisingly seemed easy to do, regardless of hearing a bit about trying to manipulate rocks to not drop in the wrong places. terrotim did a great job at the invisible block, including wall jumping off of it.


8-Tower 2

This was quite a fun level! I was making this level as mindnomad was giving some entertainment suggestions to me, like having that jumping "seizure" in the random small hole 3/4ths up the tower. Thanks to terrotim for finding out about freezing Mario's animation after a triple jump. I wish I showed it off more of it like terrotim did, though - he made it so that he had Mario's head stuck in the ground! (mindnomad asked me many times to fix the ducking spam and make it more hectic/do something different, and I didn't get to it for a long time. Sorry, there!)
I'm still not fully satisfied with my attempt at entertainment, however.
Saving time by dying in the level was a nice discovery - it's the biggest improvement of the whole run, after all.


8-Castle 2

The last level. I actually don't have much to say here. In the room with the giant Thwomp, we tried a different strategy by revealing the switch from above and performing a wall jump after flipping the room (by storing a wall jump off of the wall right before it flips). The wall jump off of nothing looked cool; too bad it was slower.
...and small Mario saves the day!